---
title: Keys To Student Success
---

Here are some behaviors and suggestion actions that will help you make the most
of your student experience.

## Ask Questions

This is your time so ask the questions you want. If it is during lecture time
and the question is best taken to lab time or to an offline discussion we'll let
you know.

## This is a marathon and not a sprint

You can't keep a marathon pace for the entire course. Pace yourself. There are
going to be lessons where the knowledge comes to you at a slower pace than
others.

## Learning has a lag period

You will find that your comfort level with a tool or concept will often lag
behind the lesson and assignment it is covered in. Do not fret. Everything in
the course builds on all that comes prior so you will have many opportunities to
practice.

## You aren't going to remember everything

You also aren't going to learn everything. We are giving you an introduction to
full stack development and we are doing it at a quick pace. Your comfort level
and knowledge will lag and you **will** feel like you don't understand
_anything_. Work on learning to be _ok_ with that feeling.

## Slow is smooth and smooth is fast

Don't try to rush through the homework assignments. There are no extra points
for finishing first, or last. The assignments are designed to take you quite
some time to complete. And if you do complete the assignment early we have bonus
modes, _adventure_ and _epic_, to keep you busy.

## "Measure twice, and cut once"

This is not only good for woodworking but also for these assignments. When an
assignment is given, **READ THE ENTIRE ASSIGNMENT** first, up through _explorer
mode_. Then spend some time planning out what you think needs to be done for the
assignment. **Get together with other students** and discuss your plans. It
often helps to ensure you know what the assignment is asking for and how to
approach it before diving in. In a typical day when we end lecture time at noon,
and pick up again at 3:00, use the time after lunch and before 3:00 to map out
your attack on the homework. If you happen to _start_ the homework before 3:00
consider that a bonus.

## Keep your eye on the prize, but not too close

Don't fret early on about your portfolio, resume, capstone project, interviews,
etc. as there will be time for all of those things as we proceed. Do keep good
time management in mind, but recognize that there is time for all the things we
ask you to do.

## Trust the process

We've done this a few times so we know of what we speak. You **will** feel like
you are falling behind and you **will** feel like you aren't understanding as
much as you like. Trust us to be the judges of that. Put all your effort in and
we will tell you where you need to focus.

## Focus on the "now"

At some point you will fall behind on homework. Work on _todays_ assignment
before trying to catch up on past assignments. We will let you know if you need
to play catch up and which assignments are the most important.

## Work on the current homework before the old

If you are behind on homework work on the current homework before working on
catching up. If you need to work on old homework first your instructor will let
you know which homework is the most critical.

## Look backwards more than you look forwards

Learning software development is a lifelong process. Each new thing you learn
will reveal an entire world of learning. There will **always** be more you
**don't** know than you **do** know even after years of learning.

So during the program spend more time looking backward to where you started and
how far you've come rather than being concerned about how much more there is
ahead of you. Be excited by what you have learned so far and how it will power
you to take on all the new challenges ahead.

## Find time to take breaks

Find time to breathe. Find time to play games. Find time to watch TV. Find time
to do all the things you do that give you rest and relaxation.

## Share your success

Also find time to share what you have learned with your friends and family. One
way to solidify learning anything is to explain it to others. So when you finish
an assignment you are proud of **show it off**. Try to explain how it works and
what you did to make it work. Take pride in your work!
